---
layout: post
title: "Conquer Your Mind" 
date: 2020-10-07
---

When each of us were born, we had nothing, but the beginning of a developing mind and body. A tiny human that hadn't been able to open their eyes yet
and most likely were crying to our heart's contents at this new unknown environment called the outside world; no longer were we safe from within our mothers.
At this point, we were clean slates that hadn't adapted to our environments or any new stimuli yet. We unconsciously were developing until we reached
a state of cognizance. No trauma, bias, expectations, or real concerns, we were in the care of others. Our environment starts to shape us, each tiny human
observing the world and developing a view of their own. The stresses begin to set in as we demand for food, attention, and our diapers to be changed.

Skipping forward a number of years, we have our own view of the world and opinions to share. Maybe we picked up an interest or a few. Stuck to the tv and/or
electronic devices depending on the generation you were born. Your concerns as a child are generally still not warrented and have no real consequence, but the
feelings and experiences you go through are of appropriate consequence. You might not have thought so then, but your reality has been shaped. 

Let's skip ahead a few more years, you are a teenager now. Your hormones are raging out of control as you enter a major development stage. Everything seems like
a big deal to you. You're concerned with your crushes, school works, the future, everything. The world feels as though its beginning to implode with you as the epicenter.
You're stuck inside your own skinner box as is everyone around you. You probably haven't thought about your mind and how all your past experiences contributed to who you
are at this point. If you were lucky by serendipity and naturally discovered how important it is to take care of your mind, you've already won at life. If you weren't so lucky,
maybe a teacher, family member, or other external force will awaken your need for self-care in acquiring a mind conquering mindset.

So what is the point I am trying to make here? The well being of your mind is extremely important! Each of us probably lacked the proper knowledge or didn't care about conditioning
our mental states. We were guided by what initially hooked our interests and we rolled with it. The neural networks were formed. Our stresses and anxieties are more real now compared to the early years.
If you exercise your mind and conquer it, your dreams and goals will come to fruition. At one point in your life, you didn't know what procrastination was. You had excellent energy and were filled with it.

Here's what you can do to conquer your mind.
	1) Write down your concerns and worries on a piece of paper or word document.
	2) You're going to resolve each of these concerns and worries by tackling each of them one a time.
		a) How do you do this? This is a herculean challenge. Well. Google! Information is power!
	3) Develop a growth mindset.
	4) Relinquish the outcome when you decide to do something. You cannot predict the future and should be focused on the journey.
	5) Meditate! By taking the time to meditate, you give your mind a chance to reset and relax. You're probably always thinking and need to relax.
	6) Let yourself enjoy the little victories. You're making progress on a huge goal, but do not see it and are too concerned with the end result.
	7) Actionable steps. If you're complaining and not doing anything, you have only given yourself tempoary solace.